docs/standard_objects/interface_instance.rst, before:

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance:

##################
Interface Instance
##################

An **interface instance** is a single addressable instance of an :doc:`interface_definition`.

**********
Attributes
**********

Instance attributes are per-interface-instance; they can vary between instances of the interface.

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-class:

Class (Required)
================

Indicates the :ref:`class<standard-objects-interface-definition-class>` of the defined interface of which
this is an instance.

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-alias:

Alias (Required)
================

The **alias** is a unique string identifying this interface instance. The string must be unique within
the definition containing the interface instance.

If multiple interface instances are instantiated using the *count* attribute, each instance will be identified
starting with the unique alias followed by the ``!`` delimiter and initial instance number, and incrementing by
1 for each instance. For example "alias!2" would be followed by "alias!3".

The alias must remain consistent through revisions of a :ref:`standard-objects-device-definition`, as this will
assist controllers with making sense of hierarchy changes.

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-friendly-name:

Friendly Name
=============

The **friendly name** attribute provides a string that could be used to identify a particular instance
of an interface in a software user interface, in order to provide more context to a user. It is not
intended to uniquely identify the interface in a database.

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-count:

Count
=====

The **count** attribute provides a mechanism for instantiating multiple interface instances of the same
type. When multiple instances are instantiated in this way, each instance is given an alias of that
provided followed by the ``!`` delimiter and an incrementing instance number (starting from 1).

********
Children
********

Interface instances can have the following children:

* :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance`
* :ref:`standard-objects-override`
* :ref:`standard-objects-condition`

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-markup:

******
Markup
******

.. tabs::

  .. tab:: XML

    * Tag name: ``interface``
    * Attributes:

      * ``class``: :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-class`
      * ``alias``: :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-alias`
      * ``friendlyname``: :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-friendly-name`
      * ``count``: :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-count`
    
    Example:

    .. code-block:: xml

      <interface class="udr://org.esta.intensity.1/binary-dimmer" alias="primary-dimmer" friendlyname="Primary Dimmer" />

  .. tab:: JSON

    * Type: ``interface``
    * Members

      ============= ========== ========================================================
      Key           Value Type Represents
      ============= ========== ========================================================
      class         string     :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-class`
      alias         string     :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-alias`
      friendlyname  string     :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-friendly-name`
      count         string     :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-count`
      ============= ========== ========================================================
    
    Example:

    .. code-block:: json

      {
        "type": "interface",
        "class": "udr://org.esta.intensity.1/binary-dimmer",
        "alias": "primary-dimmer",
        "friendlyname": "Primary Dimmer"
      }

Commit message:

Added mechanism for revisions of same class in device def

docs/standard_objects/interface_instance.rst, after:

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance:

##################
Interface Instance
##################

An **interface instance** is a single addressable instance of an :doc:`interface_definition`.

**********
Attributes
**********

Instance attributes are per-interface-instance; they can vary between instances of the interface.

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-class:

Class (Required)
================

Indicates the :ref:`class<standard-objects-interface-definition-class>` of the defined interface of which
this is an instance.

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-alias:

Alias (Required)
================

The **alias** is a unique string identifying this interface instance. The string must be unique within
the definition containing the interface instance, unless it is paired with a revision of the same class
found in another child using the same alias (see :ref:`versioning<standard-objects-device-definition-versioning>`).

If multiple interface instances are instantiated using the *count* attribute, each instance will be identified
starting with the unique alias followed by the ``!`` delimiter and initial instance number, and incrementing by
1 for each instance. For example "alias!2" would be followed by "alias!3".

The alias must remain consistent through revisions of a :ref:`standard-objects-device-definition`, as this will
assist controllers with making sense of hierarchy changes.

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-friendly-name:

Friendly Name
=============

The **friendly name** attribute provides a string that could be used to identify a particular instance
of an interface in a software user interface, in order to provide more context to a user. It is not
intended to uniquely identify the interface in a database.

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-count:

Count
=====

The **count** attribute provides a mechanism for instantiating multiple interface instances of the same
type. When multiple instances are instantiated in this way, each instance is given an alias of that
provided followed by the ``!`` delimiter and an incrementing instance number (starting from 1).

********
Children
********

Interface instances can have the following children:

* :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance`
* :ref:`standard-objects-override`
* :ref:`standard-objects-condition`

.. _standard-objects-interface-instance-markup:

******
Markup
******

.. tabs::

  .. tab:: XML

    * Tag name: ``interface``
    * Attributes:

      * ``class``: :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-class`
      * ``alias``: :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-alias`
      * ``friendlyname``: :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-friendly-name`
      * ``count``: :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-count`
    
    Example:

    .. code-block:: xml

      <interface class="udr://org.esta.intensity.1/binary-dimmer" alias="primary-dimmer" friendlyname="Primary Dimmer" />

  .. tab:: JSON

    * Type: ``interface``
    * Members

      ============= ========== ========================================================
      Key           Value Type Represents
      ============= ========== ========================================================
      class         string     :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-class`
      alias         string     :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-alias`
      friendlyname  string     :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-friendly-name`
      count         string     :ref:`standard-objects-interface-instance-count`
      ============= ========== ========================================================
    
    Example:

    .. code-block:: json

      {
        "type": "interface",
        "class": "udr://org.esta.intensity.1/binary-dimmer",
        "alias": "primary-dimmer",
        "friendlyname": "Primary Dimmer"
      }
